An hour in each side.
Yeah, but we shut it off if we go on.
You asked if we collected book planes.
Yeah.
And I said no, but we collect booksellers and book fonders tickets.
You know the little tickets they put in?
Books found by, don't know, or sold by.
Oh, those little, little, little things.
I'll show you something wonderful.
I can find it.
I'm a vast collection.
No, why then?
They're part of the book trade.
They're interesting typographically.
Remember, I'm a printer, which we haven't discussed at all.
Which I wanted to get into, by the way.
And we also have a large collection of circulating library tickets.
We have rewards of merit, watch paper, and assorted ephemera.
Is there a difference between a collection and a library?
A library, I mean, I read, was it John Carter or something like that?
He says that a library has a further implication for general dissemination.
Something like that.
Whereas a collection is an expression of a private.
Could that be the difference?
I think that's probably a little bit too.
To get back to that one question that was,
You've never become, I don't mean, bored.
Absolutely not.
If ever I'm bored with anything else, which I never, as it happened, I would come into the library and start looking at stuff, and I would be enchanted.
I love the stuff we've got.
How did the day start with you?
I work.
I don't work.
I make a living as an artist, you know.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm not a rich dilettante who pokes around, you know, this and that.
I work.
I work at collecting, too.
But you get up in the morning with the idea that I have to go do some artwork today.
That's right, every day.
And that's the first impulse.
And then you are active as a printer as well.
Yes.
I'm not a pressman, I'm a printer.
I understand that.
You've had that for quite a few years.
There was a time for over 25, 30 years when I actually had a plant.
I've given that up.
That's a money loser of colossal proportions.
And that was where it worked at?
In Northampton.
But we had that built in this one.
But no one works there.
We had a full-time present.
So we had to pay him his wages week in, week out.
That was appropriate.
How many titles did you do?
130 there in the bibliography.
1992 will be the 50th anniversary of the Gahanna Press.
50th anniversary.
There's going to be a series of celebratory exhibitions all across the U.S., beginning, I don't know, perhaps at Southern Methodist University, California colleges, going on to the Library of Congress, Pittsburgh, at the Morgan, at the Mellon, Carnegie University.
Would you remember to invite me to one of these days?
Sure.
I'll remind you.
Princeton.
And how long have you had the press?
I started the press.
50 years?
Fifty years.
In 1990, I started printing when I was a student in New Haven.
Yeah.
Wow.
Are you going to publish something appropriate?
We're thinking about, well, there's going to be a catalog.
Colin Franklin is writing it, actually.
Who is?
Colin Franklin.
He's writing his books out.
He's a brilliant writer.
Do you know him?
Have you read him?
He just wrote his name.
That's the same fella?
Yeah, he's written the only... That's the guy whose phone number you gave me, right?
Yeah, it's the only literate bookseller we really know.
I mean, he's really... He's written the only good book on the private press.
Wonderful book called The Private Press.
He's written a book on Ashley, Dustin Allen for Brickville.
He's done a book on Aquatines.
Marvelous guy.
He was the director of Routless King and Paul.
You know that?
I know that.
Oh, sir.
They had an office in Boston there for a while.
Well, in its greatest days, he was their managing director.
That's it.
He was one of those English aristocrats.
You were just a kid when you started the press.
I didn't know.
Yeah, I was 19.
Well, how did this come about?
It's reading blank.
This is all.
You've got to read about me.
What the hell is the name of the book?
It has nothing on the spot.
Nothing at all?
I'm going to shut this off while you're looking.
Let me ask you a question, Lisa.
Yes.
Now, do you have specific things that you have to get from collecting?
No.
I mean, I'm not, I don't collect, first of all, it's such an enormous area.
I do not specialize in suffrage in 19th century American history, though I have quite a bit of it.
I'm really interested in the
political, social, and intellectual history of women from the 16th century on.
The books are not necessarily written by women.
Women can be the subject matter as well.
Because, so, there is no bibliography.
There is no bibliography that one can turn to.
Slowly people are doing work.
I mean, a woman called Dale Spender did a book called Mothers of the Novels.
women novelists before Jane Austen.
A hundred women novelists before Jane Austen.
And that book, though academic scholars scorn the book and scorn some of her work, I find that book enormously interesting because she's done bibliographical work.
She's made short bibliographies of all the women that she's discovered.
Amelia Opie wrote
about a novel based on the life of Mary Wollstonecraft.
I didn't know that until I read about it in Dale Spender's book.
Maybe that's something you should do, you know.
It's endless.
It really is endless.
But it's a good bibliography.
Of what?
It's enormous.
I'm not a bibliographer.
That's not my interest.
Every good book collector is a bibliographer.
No, I'm not a bibliographer.
I've started collecting a woman called Helen Maria Williams just in the past three or so years.
Helen Mariah Williams was a woman who lived in the 18th century, an English woman, who went to live in France during the Revolution, was jailed.
If you look up Helen Mariah Williams in the DMV, you'll find a very nasty, though quite extensive, biographical notice, where the writer
says, how dare this woman write about ideas?
Who is she?
She's a mere woman.
And she's telling us about the French Revolution.
Well, it turns out, according to French sources, that the most accurate reporting of the French Revolution that was carried to England was carried by Helen Maria Williams and Tom Paine.
In her books, she wrote 12 volumes on the French Revolution.
She was a friend of Mary Wollstonecraft.
Wollstonecraft scholars, historically,
They write a page or two about Helena Rothstein.
And how did you come on to?
I came on to her.
I had bought some books of hers, willy-nilly, and became interested in her.
And then Madeline Stern and Leona Rostenberg had a great cache of her books and would feed me her books.
And since then, I've been able to buy some letters of hers, et cetera.
Nobody's done any work on her.
Could I talk to Rostenberg as well?
Do you mind if I mention that?
No, no, certainly.
I adore them.
They're wonderful.
I wish I had known them 40 years ago.
I mean, they're dead.
I mean, I feel terrible when I don't owe them money, you know.
Sure, I've just bought a wonderful book from the Dahini collection from Leon and Madeleine.
I bought a beautiful 16th century book of all the writings of Marguerite of Navarre.
Marguerite.
Marguerite?
Marguerite of Navarre.
A beautiful copy with woodcuts.
This is a book that crosses
because it has, it's a beautiful piece of French 16th century book making, illustrated with woodcuts by .
You know, you just demonstrated, well, I haven't seen that, but it is interesting.
You know everything that you have.
Oh, yeah.
And for the most part, you can put your hand on it.
But of course, it's interesting.
I completely forgot it's in the box, but I was going to show you.
But when we talk about catalogs and using the catalogs to locate things.
Yeah, you have a catalog to locate things.
This is a book.
Because you wouldn't mind the books.
It's in grateful shape that I'm keeping the music.
This is no great, but it's of no great interest to me.
1673.
It's a nice collection, but I own it.
It's a nice travel book, but I own it because... Books printed in London.
Inserted inside it.
A little catalog.
And actually sold by Elizabeth Hutchinson.
I mean, this is her style.
And how did you find them?
Did you go out?
Yeah.
We met, incidentally, at the school bridge.
At the book fair.
Which is not, as book fairs go, is not a major book fair.
But I always managed to find them.
Well, I can find that kind of stuff there.
And I can find who knows what.
In fact, I found a nice little early book.
I don't find good books.
No, I didn't find that.
But I believe I got a great book of the Boston books there.
But it's a book I've never seen or heard of.
Got a wonderful book.
It's a book on the movement of water.
Do you bid at options?
No.
Yes.
Lisa maybe does, I don't.
I don't buy or sell at auction by and large.
I have some funny stories.
I mean, I was going to bid at Sotheby's, I got a catalog, the Sotheby's sale, and there was something that was catalogued.
Les raisons des forces mouvantes.
It's about...
It's a scientific book about the mechanics of moving water so you can have fountains and grottoes and stuff like that.
You can't go ahead and say, excuse me.
Now, this man, Salomon de Caus.
C-A-B-S.
I know that name.
C-A-U.
What's a U?
C-A-U-S.
He is famous for having done a great perspective book, which I never could find.
But my friend, Timothy Trace, the great bookseller who lived in Peaksville, New York, had a copy in his personal collection.
So I knew it.
Yeah.
In fact, it was used originally for that perspective, although I haven't found this copy to look this up.
You see it's been crossed out here.
It's been scraped out.
Here on the block, do you think?
On the plate, on the plate, on the plate.
Okay, so this is such a book about machinery, right?
About the movement of water, about water wheels.
Fundamentally, it's boring.
It's not really boring.
It's boring.
It has wonderful things, for example, about... Well, I like these things of machinery.
But you knew this before?
No.
Oh, never saw it?
Never saw a reference to it?
I've never seen it in a catalog.
I've never seen any... And since we bought it... I haven't been able to find out anything about it.
Nothing.
But it's the second set.
The second set, that's interesting.
Although there are things on mechanical music, like, you know... That's wonderful.
Yeah, this is like a tableau revampus, like automata, isn't it?
How they're animated, in this case, with water.
Now, this is a music...
like a new player piano yeah what's the day i'm listening 16 1810 be careful can i read that yes you see the price they were asking for i won't mention that no but i'm just telling you about that's not i didn't pay that for it mm-hmm i didn't swap i swapped that's the best play that's 1624 paris
Yeah, but let me show you what's interesting.
All right, so this is, these are quite interesting.
These are all music, still music, but okay, then they, actually this is one of the details, and here's the actual music that plays.
It's up and down, right?
It's rather interesting.
Well, then you get to the second volume, and this is the second edition of this volume.
Here we go.
Now we come to the second, which is in the first edition, which is earlier than, as you see, in 1615, this is later.
There's 20, but it's the second printing of the first part.
It's dedicated to Elizabeth of England.
Brian?
Oh, what's the date on it again?
1615.
Yeah, but she's been dead for 12 years.
Did she die in... 1603.
This is the princess.
Oh, princess.
I'm sorry.
It's not the queen.
This is the princess.
Princess is the princess.
This is not the queen.
Okay, and this is a grotto, right, with fountains and all sorts of stuff.
Look at this place.
Here is one of these balls going up on a fountain.
Wait a minute.
You see that?
All around are chameleons, monsters, and various creatures which ship.
Making a star around the water jet.
Making that ball stay in the air.
The ball stays in the air from there.
That is fascinating.
That is a fabulous plate.
That plate really knocked me for a loop.
You saw this when you saw the book?
I mean, did you take this much time to go through a plate for a plate?
I just looked at it and saw that it was an incredibly interesting book.
Then I found one other plate which knocked me.
I'll show it to you.
There's this cancel, which is interesting.
This is some model of some fast work.
But the other plate that's fabulous is this plate of a cave with Apollo.
Apollo.
This is an automaton, you see, worked by music, worked by water.
He plays his fiddle.
Meanwhile, their animals are charmed.
Do you see the animals?
Every nook and cranny, there are animals.
What kinds of plates are these?
These are copper plates.
Do you see these animals everywhere?
I even know where most of them are copied from.
But they're in every nook and cranny.
You see these alligators in the owl up there?
That's actually a way, huh?
Gorgeous.
The book is unknown.
And this hits you as an artist, as a collector, as a printer?
It hits me on every level, on all levels, because it's a book of vast interest.
And unknown.
It's peculiar and unknown to me.
I've looked through all the catalogs I own.
I can't find it.
How about the fellow that sold it to you?
Did he know anything about it?
Not too much.
Look, you see how... He had no bibliographical reference.
He had nothing.
He says, the second part of the film is a worthy companion to
to Faldus.
That has as much to do with Faldus Fountains of Rome as I have with Ivan Zandorff.
Salomon, S-A-L-O, Degas.
M-O-N, D-E, Svaldi, C-A-U-S.
He doesn't know anything about it, you see.
Les raisons, les forces, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les raisons, les forces of movement, right?
Diverse machines.
And they're clever booksellers, these guys.
The two Johns in Williamsburg.
Do you know them?
No.
They're very hot, very clever guys.
What is this?
I'm going to have this.
This is a piece of shit.
We're going to have redone.
You're going to do it.
Nineteenth century.
I'm going to put a new one on.
That'll be pleasing.
How about tree?
It hasn't boxed, which is extraordinary for three centuries.
Watch the box.
It's perfectly good paper.
It's as good as the day it was made.
That's what I'm saying.
It's been badly handled by someone who's got torn here and there.
There's lots of tearing.
I'll get that old thing.
It's 300 odd years, though.
I mean, we've got that.
That's exciting.
Now, does this rank as one of your great finds?
I would say it's a very interesting, good find.
I'll show you a great find.
Let me know when you want me to go, by the way.
We don't get a chance to show our books.
Show books to anybody.
People don't have any knowledge or insight.
People aren't interested.
You can't imagine, also, they're not interested in books.
Did you design this room with these?
Yes.
We drew on the wall.
This is the reason I don't collect big things like that, prints and such.
Before I show you this, I'll have to show you something else.
What's the color of the paint?
What do you call it?
I just, I don't know, there were no colors.
They have numbers at our paint store now.
The brand is about a great color plate collection.
We have these wondrous little fascicules.
How could you pile with those wonderful color plates?
We have to.
There's a man called Jan Ladmiral.
Very important.
He worked with Goethe Daggett.
L-A-D-E-M-I-R-E-A.
And you should know that name for Dick Reich.
But what I want to show you is that.
Ooh.
That is color mezzotint.
All kinds of colors.
Including the gold.
That is gorgeous.
It's like a jewel, isn't it?
And there are in the world seven different of these pasticules.
We have...
You don't have... And in all the years we've been collecting... This is all we can find.
This is the one that comes with... These are variants from other... What is the subject, might I ask?
The subject has to do with the part of the brain, the dura... And so on.
The reason I'm showing these to you... Now, remember this.
Careful.
Let's put them back in the box.
This is a special edition.
of a quite common book.
There was a man called Van Mander, who was the Northern Vasari.
He did the same for Dutch artists as Vasari did for us.
And he hired this guy, Jan Laudmirao, to make portraits of these artists.
And if you look down here, there it is.
You'll see what it is.
There it is.
My god, that's it.
It would otherwise be absolutely meaningless, right?
That's it.
It's one of the things that interests me.
What this is then... How do you make these connections?
How did you find them?
Because we had this, and we had a shop in California.
Hey, but you noticed it.
We asked for portrait books.
And he said, well, I have one.
Yes, and he shows me this book.
What happens when you see something like that?
What do you feel?
I feel very excited.
And I saw this, and I see this is the final published one with the letters and the numbers, right?
This is the proof.
This is the engraver's drawing.
And where's the artist's drawing?
This is the artist's drawing.
This is a lot of morale traced.
Oh, copied, engraved.
How do we spell this gentleman's name again?
L. Adler.
Okay, L. Adler, okay.
And it goes like this.
Is this a well-known work?
No.
Not this particular book, but I mean what he did.
You said what he did.
This.
It's a very famous book.
Sure, sir.
Okay.
It's very famous.
But this is the sort of thing we were alert to because we were in the portrait business.
The bookseller had no idea what he had.
He didn't know any of the people.
You knew von Maunder, of course.
Yeah, you know, it felt like a $1,000 book.
Yeah.
And it literally was $1,000 book.
It made $2,000 worth all of that.
I know that.
God, what's the title?
What's right there on the spine?
Carl von Maunder.
Leven der Niederlandische Kunstler.
E-N-D-E-R.
Niederlandische.
Le-N-D-S-C-H-E.
Kunstler.
Schilder.
Did you say this is folio size?
And probably even a little larger, right?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, that's a good book.
That's great.
Any great disappointments in the collecting?
The ones that get away?
Disappointment.
Of course you're disappointed.
Never what you thought that you would get.
It's always what we've done.
You don't have the money.
Or else we didn't have the wits to know how good something was.
How interesting.
Did you taste the milk?
I did, sir.
Did you?
Making the connections, though, with those color plates and seeing that... But you saw it instantly, didn't you?
I saw it instantly.
Well, then why should not?
Richard set me up for it.
Yeah, but I set myself up for it.
I know those color plates.
I know everything about color plates.
It's so apparent.
So then, therefore, do you know what that is?
Have you gone back to the source?
What source?
To determine just what that famous little
color plate is.
Yeah, it's one of those.
It's one of those, actually.
I understand that.
No.
No, you mean what it is, medically?
Yeah.
It's just a little tract about a part of the brain.
It must have been very famous in its time.
It must have been well-known.
Not famous, but they couldn't have been too many copies.
Yeah, it was hard to print those letters, too.
Let's see if we hear anything else.
You've given me a great deal of your time.
Have you found another collection like that?
I don't expect to find an early collection like that.
Well, Arthur and Charlotte have books better than ours.
Early books better than ours.
They have more money.
More classics.
And they also don't collect other objects.
Well, they collect as a couple?
Yeah.
You don't collect as a couple.
Yeah, we do.
We do.
And we don't.
We did collect much, much more as a couple when we were just collecting the early books.
When Lisa started collecting her women's books, it became much more her collecting.
And I look upon this as her collection.
I think this incredible achievement is hers.
And I think it's Lisa Bassett's collection of the history of women.
Whereas I look upon both of ours, although latterly it's been mostly mine.
Well, latterly we also haven't been able to buy the books.
But we do get books.
Occasionally.
I buy two or two to four books.
A year.
I'd like to cycle back to one other thing.
Your collection probably does belong in an institution at some point.
Yeah.
When I said, on the other hand, you'd probably... Oh, I could say to go back now.
Yeah, it's a priming collective.
That's a philosophical statement.
I wonder if you could just expand on that a little bit.
I think what Lisa has done is put together diverse materials and made a new whole out of them.
The femoral material, the journal material, the manuscript material, and the principles together create a new entity which has never existed before.
And as a result, it instructs us, it informs us, it delights us, it educates us, and it transforms us.
And it won't ever be put together in that way.
Again, it can't be because materialists do a family.
To break that up, it seems to me, would be to betray its essential quality.
Whereas to break up the collection of old books, you're not breaking anything up.
It's a nice collection of miscellaneous and early books.
I can just see from the first sentence to that period, an entire statement
I'll tell you, that was a great statement.
Now, tell me just to... All right, now you've just explained Lisa's collection.
Tell me why you think, on the other hand, your items, because I can't tell them all books because they're items.
They also can't call them his.
They're also not fine.
They're ours.
And I'd make that clear.
The women's books are Lisa's, but everything else is ours.
She participates in the rest, even though laterally she hasn't been beaten at all.
What are you looking for, Lisa?
You should see what's up.
You can't believe this.
Does this happen often to you?
No.
We had to do it for scholars.
How about for yourselves?
For ourselves, yeah, for also to revamp the collection, to let me get new stuff.
I mean, I just, you know, I have no room, and I'm forever moving sections.
We're building stacks in that new room, I think.
But, tell me, you see, there is something I want to get out of the book.
I understand.
Bradley Martin, for instance, put together the greatest.
Yeah, French.
Yeah.
The legend, and yet,
I thought people would be outraged.
No.
Not really.
They said, well, look, as a collection, it was wonderful, but Yale is a wonderful collection.
Yeah, there are many other sets, but there aren't many like this.
My book, Smith, Schlesinger, are the only places, not one or two.
You mentioned Princeton.
Princeton has a collection that was formed by a woman called Edith Holden, and she had early books, but she didn't have the kind of scope that I have.
As I was saying to you before, I don't have only 19th Central American Suffrage.
I also have a history of obstetrics and medicine.
That's exciting, isn't it?
Does this excite you?
I have women printers.
I mean, there was a woman called Anne Catherine Green, who was a colonial printer to Maryland.
And it was Anne Catherine Green and Son on the title page, by the way.
What?
Of the Constitution?
No, no, no.
What did she print something them for?
She would just say, print it to the Commons.
But, so there are a lot of categories in what my books are.
Do you have an idea, I don't know whether I asked you a question, how many items you have, roughly?
No.
It's irrelevant.
Thousands say.
Well, ten.
I don't know, because, come sit over here for a second.
Tens of thousands of items.
Hundred-hundred children and not one comes to visit me.
Do you know that?
Two-thousand-year-old man?
Oh, is that in the notebook?
Yeah.
These are blank books.
And in them, I mean, the family is very hard to have.
And these were, you know, these common little papers with handovers that were handed out.
I mean, I survived.
I had a napkin from a suffrage... Picnic.
...that was printed.
I mean, they were all... I collect things.
I have so many stars that look to them, and I have a suffrage... That's very lack of a good condition.
Yeah, that's... Is there any way to date that?
Oh, sure, you can date it within a year by the time.
Yeah, you can do it by the time.
I could find out what year it was that this... Sure.
This was just a flyer, Words to a Song, a March of Women, by J. Michael Smart.
These are big blank paper.
I imagine it's all... Tomorrow, sir, it's the one we're full of.
An envelope.
A little tiny.
It's not a real song.
It's just a book's room.
That's in fabulous condition.
Look at this stuff.
You can't believe it, you see.
Where are you going to duplicate this?
Boxes.
She has so much of this, you can't imagine how much she has.
I have this guy running, I think, someplace.
I don't know where he's going.
He's going to be really hard.
He's going to occasionally have a nasty, but not very often.
Great suffrage demonstration.
This piece is addressed to the medium.
I think we see it.
Social and political movement.
Every proper goose should have been.
Sorry, it's funny.
It is funny.
And Lisa has scrapbooks of... Suffer's scrapbooks.
Suffer's scrapbooks.
That's how it doesn't know.
And these are from a collection of prints that we sold the prints.
This is the Enlightened Smelly one?
No.
She was a remarkable woman.
She was the only one who had been screwed with .
She was his mistress.
She traveled with the 8th Street Army and everything.
She wrote a great book called Dorio Hearth.
I mean, just by looking at it, it speaks.
Now, age is obviously not the only factor.
Now, this stuff you find in basements, you find in addictions.
You've got to buy it at autographs, too.
This is a Dr. Ward's gift.
This is a gift.
It was mounted on this, and I had it restored and taken off that.
We're still running.
Look at this.
I mean, you just won't believe the amount and quality and quantity.
Well, it's like a public institution, you see, this kind of collection.
You're very proud of this collection.
Oh, I think it's incredible.
It's incredible.
You have almost looked at it.
I sense a...
She's very proud of her.
Great pride.
Yeah, I've also given her some crucial books and objects for this collection, I mean, that I have found.
In other words, that beautiful costume book that we first showed you, that came from me, that huge library book that came from me.
So did many treasures, which I love finding.
I've got wonderful books for Christmas.
I have a feeling that one of the reasons that you really are very proud of it, it really seems to be an extension of her.
Lisa seems to have conceived this.
Yeah, totally.
And I'm just proud, you know, I think it's a fantastic achievement.
I mean, any collector who has any instinct... Oh, it's in the other box.
But this is the letter that we've begun talking about.
Who's that from?
Oh, yeah.
That's a great letter.
Elizabeth Gaskell.
I gave Lisa this letter.
Lisa the President.
Elizabeth Gaskell, a monk, and she was a great novelist, an enormous importance.
But she also wrote probably one of the best biographies ever written in one of the famous biographies of Charlotte Bronte.
And this letter is to Ellen Nussie.
And Ellen Nussie was Charlotte Bronte's closest to all her friends.
And this letter is written
to Ellen Nussie by Elizabeth Gaskell, as she's really beginning her initial research on the biographies.
And she is extremely obliged to you for kind answer to my almost illegible note.
I wrote it with ink pen and ink at Skipton, where we were detained that Monday night after our visit to Howard.
I am sure you can be of more service to me than anyone else, because you have been her dear friend for so many years, and must have known her through all the progress of her character.
From what I can judge from the letters Mr. Nichols, father's husband, has entrusted me with, her very earliest way of expressing herself must have been different to common.
And I look forward with deep personal interest.
and for the value of any materials they may furnish me with, from my difficult and terribly interesting past, to the reading of any of these which you may think it right to entrust me with.
I am sorry, Ms.
Wooler, Ms.
Wooler ran the school a short talk.
I am sorry Ms.
Wooler shrank from the idea of my coming to see you as Ilkley, which is, you know, as you thought of.
As you say, it would have been better to talk about her on the hills,
and in the free open air than in a room.
It's wonderful, isn't it?
For that letter to me, it's a very special mother-in-law.
But this, this is a Charlotte Francaa letter.
And it's wonderful because it's witty.
And where did you get it?
Manny gave it to me as a present.
It came with it, I think.
It's a very important letter.
It's a wonderful letter.
That's a $10,000 object.
No, no.
Roy said, when we were still living in England, it was a $12,000 letter.
Roy Davids is the head of Sotheby's book.
Sotheby's book.
Good friend of ours.
So it's a $15,000 object.
So who knows?
It's a great, great letter, because it's really, it's to Ellen, who's Ellen Murphy, my dear Ellie.
Has he been published anywhere?
It's been referred to.
That makes them worth more, I guess, when they haven't been published.
Yeah.
But still, there's so few Charlotte letters.
She's writing.
It's very interesting about marriage.
I couldn't afford to buy a letter like that today.
I couldn't begin to.
I bought that over, what, ten years ago or some more.
But what is good is,
You weren't tempted to sell it, either, because of the place.
This is a wonderful letter.
None of this stuff has ever been sold.
I bought this at an auction.
This is a letter of Lady Wilde, Oscar's mom.
It's a lovely letter, too.
And it's very, it has one lovely bit in it.
Lady Speranza, her name is.
She loves this collection.
Oh, yeah.
I like her very much, Speranza.
She's a fantastic woman.
She taught singing lessons.
She gave singing lessons to keep the family going, and she would run and walk around.
A woman's duty...
Ends with marriage.
She becomes a vegetable, a house leak, a mop.
I feel that I am potted for the rest of my days.
Who is this again?
Wild's mother.
At marriage, at marriage, she becomes a vegetable, a house leak, a mop.
A house leak, a mop.
A mop.
A leak, a vegetable, right?
I feel that I am potted for the rest of my days.
Isn't that incredible?
What's the date on that?
Is this date?
1890s?
No.
1880s?
I don't know if it was the date on that.
1852.
Yeah.
1852, so.
What did I say?
71 pounds for that.
That's not bad.
This is one of the most moving things I want to understand.
What's that?
This is a group of things, three things, that this young woman, Emily Davison.
Oh, yes.
I'm going to go have it.
Selfridges.
That's what's fantastic.
I'll show you some of the other books.
These are all memorial things.
Emily Davison, in order to... She threw herself under the king's horse at a race.
I don't know if you know about this.
And she became a real martyr to the cause.
Is this stuff you know about afterwards?
No, I knew about this.
Yes, and I got a letter, and the letter is interesting.
This is a handbook from Hasimo.
There's a little anecdote after she died.
She threw herself under the... Her name is Emily Wilding Davison, who graduated with honors at London University, took first-class honors in the final schools at Oxford University in English language and literature, suffered imprisonment and endured the torture of forcible feeding on many occasions, and finally at Epsom offered up her life for her faith on Wednesday, the 4th of June, 1913, and died on Sunday, the 8th of June, 1913.
And it was said that the king inquired after the health of his horse.
The queen inquired after the young man.
And these were saved.
It's interesting how these came.
Now these, they would be categorized as ephemeral.
This is definitely.
Nothing is more ephemeral than this.
Right?
Here.
In a loving memory of Miss Emily Wiley-Davidson, B.A., 38 years old, who was fatally injured on Epstein-Racebook, since then he was a started hospital in Epstein, interred at my house.
This is a feminist.
And this is a transcript of this letter.
Dear Stahl.
Dear Stahl, here are three of the cards I did not see any more about.
Even these have had adventures.
They were last retrieved from the insides of a royal pillbox.
I was lunching with Evelyn Eng and Princess Alice of Tess.
And after lunch, the toilet started, right?
And after lunch, I said I was to rummage in the crowd for Memorial Day.
So the princess immediately said she would like to come and see the fun.
There was a great crowd about and insisted on squeezing in, vodkin between, in the groan.
Of course, with all the well-known livery we got through everywhere and bought these things, they were paid for by Weigel, the Egyptologist, as I found myself without my purse in the street.
And W, happening to be just there, paid for them.
Then the princess was afraid that they would take us to suffragettes, and the unfortunate cars were stuffed away and finally forgotten.
It was only by telephoning to the stables later they were retrieved.
It was an enormously long procession, but everything was very orderly.
The police were wonderful.
The traffic wasn't stopped exactly.
They managed to pass the show down the middle of it.
I might be able to come to that Friday 27th to try to draw a little Dora, or if not, I could spare a longer time at the beginning of it.
I don't know who was home.
Much love from Dora.
But that's a family.
Now you got this as a group of others.
Yes, these were the three things that she retrieved from the parents.
This is all over.
Preserving a fragment, you know, too.
Oh, yeah.
And how?
An important fragment that would otherwise be lost.
These are two notes that have lots of notes.
That's why I meant the thing together creates a new total.
It's a synergy, actually.
That's right.
These are notes.
by a former woman called Emily Faithful.
Who ran a... The Victoria Press, including formative women.
Including compositors and press women and everything.
She had an annuity... And she influenced... She visited America three times and wrote a crucially interesting book about her trip to America.
She visited the Riverside Press in Boston.
saw all the women working.
He said, ah, look at how the Victorian press is influenced in the spread of women in printing work.
Mr. Beatrice, will you help my last effort in America by using the enclosed, if possible, and by giving out a notice of my lecture at your Sunday services?
I hope to be surrounded by some of your noblest countrymen and women.
That good old Derek Smith has come
up on purpose from Peterborough, Lucretia Mott expects to be present.
And I shall bid farewell to this land of promise with genuine... Sorry.
No, genuine something in spite of asthma.
The proceeds of the lecture I shall devote to my fund for destitute gentlewomen.
This is Emily?
This is Emily Faithful.
And then here's the notice of the lecture.
Ms.
Faithful will give a farewell address on work for women
With her English and American experiences at Steinway Hall, Thursday afternoon, April 3rd, the proceeds will be given to Miss Faithful's Home Fund for Distressed Ladies.
Lucretia Mott is expected to address the meeting.
We named our daughter after Lucretia Mott.
49 Remington Street.
Yes.
Another one was faithful.
She's enormously interesting.
There's a huge bibliography.
It's just typed.
Nobody's done any work on her, really.
This is really an archive.
This is the Julie Ward Howe letter, which I find very amusing and very interesting, because I believe she was 92 or so when she wrote this letter.
Showing the letter how it looks of a 92-year-old woman.
It's interesting because she's a little anxious to speak, and she's a little anxious.
This surely must be my last public appearance.
I'm quite sure of a gratifying reception from my native city, but not so sure of a favorable verdict.
Wasn't it strange that I should fear to show you my work, and yet dare to recite them for the great public.
I've read your two, and it's interesting.
Who is she writing to?
Sanborn.
Magistrates.
I've got the first Uncle Tom's cabin, which I found in wonderful condition.
Really?
Found in Cape.
A little old guy by the name of that.
Look, he's dead now.
Winston Burrell.
Do you want to press Winston?
No.
Burrell?
Burrell.
B-U-R-R-E-R.
Margaret Fuller.
That's a lot of money for that.
It's been wonderful.
I think it came out of the house in the case.
Do you have any style material?
I have printed books.
I have a letter.
There's one letter.
Alice Moore's Pearl.
Pearl of the other books are worthless, basically.
No, they're not.
Pearl of Horse Island, I disagree with you.
There's a book called Literary Women by Ellen Mullins.
Okay, that was a foolish statement.
Yeah, the books aren't worthless.
I mean, they might not have had the importance that Uncle Tom's cabin had.
I think maybe the word, the expression... Let me show them some printed books.
This is some early material, all right?
What do you want to say?
I feel like I'd show them the first coined book.
Yeah.
i would have just make sure i've got another tape ready it's time to have another cape up already
This is a marvelous book.
I'll just show you some random things.
I love it.
All right?
This is the very first book ever made, which tries to set forth in some order and system the earliest Roman poem.
It's called Illustrious, Illustrium Imogenesis.
It's by a man called Poulvius, and it was printed in 1517.
in Rome by a guy called Iacobo Mazzocchius.
Impressed in Rome, I'll put Iacobo Mazzocchius of Rome.
Nice.
He also was a bookseller, 1517, the 15th day of the year.
I think Mazzocchius is a... That's pretty clever for 1517, that little... No.
What, this?
Well, I mean, this little inverted... They did that... That's where it came from.
And by 1523, there was a French copy of the book.
See, illustrium imaginae.
Do you have any incunables here?
No, but this could.
If I told you that's an incunable, it looks just like it.
It feels like it, doesn't it?
It's an exact copy of this book, down to misunderstanding the... Just a little smaller format.
Smaller format.
So how did they replicate it?
Well, they tried.
They just copied it, you see.
They copied all these ornaments.
They're all copied.
I could find the very, you know, object.
The decorations.
They don't have the verb because they don't understand it, right?
I think it's 1523 or thereabouts.
Now, you wouldn't call this a piracy.
Of course there is an absolute dead piracy.
MD 1524.
I mean, do we have piracies in those days?
Of course.
This is a piracy, isn't it?
It just lifted it.
But, I mean, there were no copyright laws, of course not.
Oh, that's not for Germany.
Well, I wanted to show you what they did in Germany then.
Now, did you find these separately?
Yes.
That's the fun of it, isn't it, huh?
And then in Germany, the next year, in 1525, appears Mr. Ulrich.
This book, which is a... This is 1534.
It's a later edition.
I'll show you why.
But this is the same book.
Oh, that's beautiful.
But this is really a gorgeous book.
God, look at that.
Top thing of that.
Do you see it's the same thing?
Why is the paper so good?
It says pure paper.
Pure red.
Starts with Julius Caesar.
Where is he?
There is.
That's Alexander Magnus.
Julius Caesar.
Where is he?
That's all.
Pompeius.
Marcellus.
Oh, I'm missing the name.
Julia, where are you?
Well, that's what's the point.
Anyhow.
This is a gorgeous book.
But it's based on these two books, but slightly different, you see.
And we know who made these.
We know who made these, too, by the way.
A man called Hans Weintert is responsible.
It's actually visually very beautiful books of the Renaissance, I think.
This book?
This book.
Don't you think it's gorgeous?
But I mean, you just made quite a statement.
One of the most beautiful books.
Oh, look at it.
I think it's a magnificent book.
I'm not challenging you on it.
And then if you don't think that's beautiful, in the back of it, there's a second book, which is Consularum Romanorum.
These are the coins of the Roman consuls away from Rome.
And it just has then a catalogue with these wonderful borders.
And then when you get to the coins, they're just like this.
Look at this opening.
It's gorgeous, eh?
It's fabulous.
I just want to show them one more of the... You don't treat your books gingerly, though, do you?
Oh, be careful.
It just looks like... I just want to show them this.
I would be frightened to have a book like that.
Well, if you're frightened... I know.
And I'll show you one last coin book, which is a precious book.
which may have been illustrated by the guy who... Do you get these because you like clothes?
No, because it's just immensely interesting.
Actually, Philip Hopper gave me this as a present.
This is as external.
That's our old house in Northampton.
That was our English.
I haven't put our new one in.
You cleaned up here.
Here it is.
It goes right down here.
Or down there.
I don't know.
It doesn't matter.
Well, anyhow, Philip Hopper, you know what I mean?
Do you agree?
But we already had a copy of the book that he gave me.
I didn't tell him, though.
But it is those coins again, but so beautiful, like gems, the way they're cut white on black.
You see how gorgeous that is?
Well, I could go on and on.
Is that a vellum?
That's vellum.
That's vellum, that's vellum.
What did you say?
Yes, I'm on.
Okay.
So that's pointless.
Wow.
They are interesting because they're the earliest form of portrait books.
Would you say that's kind of your major direction personally right now is portrait books?
At the moment, yes.
It's because they're eminently collectible.
So it's opportunity as well.
So we love a kind of book called model book.
That book.
This is a more classic bottle book.
Ruben Sand.